Now one such as myself, successful as I am, has seen a lot of failure in my life, right? In fact, with me at the top of the pyramid, at the front of the race, I would go so as far as to say even that I just stood by and observed everybody else in my life fail. My friends, my colleagues, you know, I just invited them to come along with me if they wanted to. They could join me on my journey and everybody has just said no, they're good on their own, they're going to continue down their path and they just went into ruin and I went onto the path of success. So I have this weird thing about me where I would say to myself, I will let you fail. I let other people fail because they just don't want to join me on my path and I've had to just accept and make peace with the fact that I need to let other people fail. I need to let them make their own mistakes and hopefully they will learn from them. Some will recover, some never will. Now this is important because society tends to tell us that we need to help each other, right? Like just be helpful person, help each other out, but maybe it's time that we stop helping each other so much because what happens is people learn to take advantage of us and they learn helplessness on their own. And really what happens is we create a society of victims, victim mentality, because people learn by acting helpless and by not helping themselves that other people would come and help them for them. And we have a society of weak people. And you know, maybe we should just let people go off into ruin, go off into their own failures, and then they will learn that they need to watch out for themselves. And that people like me, they can't count on me to just always be lending them a hand, always coming by, always being that safety net for them. And in particular, it is our friends and family that prey on our kindness because they know we're not going to abandon them. We're not going to just leave them behind. So they just treat us poorly. They misbehave and they do this because they know the other person is not going to be mean to them. They're not going to abandon them. You don't have it in you to be mean to me. I know you, you're not going to leave me behind. I can just act like total trash. I can say whatever I want to you and you're still going to be kind to me at the end of the day. You're still going to back me up because I know you, you're a big softie. So I'm going to just do whatever I want around here. And I'm going to be the victim and you're going to help me be a victim. So recently this happened to me with my dad again, you know, so my stupid dad. So I was on a road trip with my dad and he decided that he didn't want to join in on my plans and he wanted to just get off on the side of the road. And I told him, you're going to come and destroy my trip. You're going to ruin my whole road trip and just get off on the side of the road because you want to be captain and I want to be captain too. And we can't have two captains in here. So you're just getting out. Well, I'm not going to come back and pick you up. Okay. So you catch an Uber back because I'm not picking you up again. I'm not going to waste my time doing that. And so I just left him on the side of the road in the storm, drove off. He didn't expect me to do that. They didn't think I had it in me. And by the way, this is classic alpha male behavior. You've got two alpha males battling for dominance and obviously an adult male such as myself should not be in the same household as his father. That's unnatural in the animal kingdom. It leads to natural strife. But later on, I went back, saw he was gone. He had apparently hitchhiked back to the ranger station. But the fact is this type of self-sabotage behavior is something that I've grown exceedingly accustomed to throughout my whole entire life because I've surpassed just about everybody that I've met. And so I have to say, it's up to you. You do whatever you want. I'm going to do this thing. You're welcome to join me on this path. Most people never join along because they want to hang out with their friends. They think they may be smarter than me. Maybe their ego is too big. They want to be in control or they just don't want to listen to me. And the result is always the same. Everybody fails. I've stood by and watched it as I was the only one who actually succeeded around here. Now there's this weird thing people do, which is self-harm, self-sabotage. And whenever they act out in this way, they expect pity and they expect everybody to come pay attention to them. So, you know, my dad did this as well on our road trip. He decided that he didn't want to go to a destination. He was just going to sit down and just not go anywhere. And I immediately observed this behavior, noticed it and just called it out and said, you know what? You're being a crybaby about this and I'm not going to let you ruin this road trip. I'm just going to go myself. And by the way, there are dinner reservations as well, which you agreed to, and you're going to pay for that dinner reservation. Even if you can't attend it, I'm not going to come back and pick you up for that. So you can miss out on the whole entire day, pay for dinner that you're not going to eat, or you can come along. I simply won't deal with this type of self-sabotage behavior anymore. Now I used to, when somebody would be crying and throwing a fit, I would come by and say, oh, how can I help you? Oh, you feel so bad. Oh, you want everybody to pay attention to you. You're trying to ruin everybody's trip. So we have to placate you, calm you down, give you stuff and just pay good attention to you. And nowadays I just let people throw themselves down and go into failure themselves. And I just don't deal with it. And it is because it is illogical behavior. And I won't deal with illogical behavior. You see, I'm a programmer, ex Google. I'm a logical person. And so I expect the people around me to also act in a logical self-preservation manner. And so the problem is people take advantage of my logicalness. I expect logical behavior and I expect it.
and they have realized that to defeat this expectation, they can act in illogical ways that self-harm. And I won't take it. My kindness is a gift, do not expect it. And do not take that for granted because I will let you self-harm. I will let you self-sabotage. I will let you fail. Because fundamentally, this is the most despicable type of behavior, taking advantage of other people's kindness, hoping that they're going to stop you from ruining your own life. It is immature, the type of thing a child should do, and I think we should stop helping people and stop supporting this type of behavior. You know, one funny exercise is, I think about the people I've dated throughout my life, and to know that they're still out there struggling, and they chose to struggle for the next 50 years of their life working their dead-end jobs, and they could have had what I had. I offered my hand for that, and they just said no, and I just have to let people be. I can't save everybody, and I've had to come to terms with that. So if I descend down from the halls of Google, from the light of success, and I reach my hand down, and I offer to save people, and they don't even grab that hand, and I look them in the eyes, and they say, you know what, they're good, and they're just going to drift off into their whatever lives they're going to live, in their one-bedroom, shoebox apartments, moldy floors, moldy carpets, scrubbing toilets, nine to five every day, toiling throughout their lives, and I've had to just look them in their lives and say, okay, that's your choice, that's what you wanted. And it is traumatic for me to have had to watch people who I cared about just decide to destroy their own lives, and I've had to let them. But the thing is this, it's not my problem, it is their problem, because I'm the main character on this storyline, and you've got all these other random people, NPCs around me, going off into their little side quests, thinking that's the main storyline, when it just, it's a dead end, it leads nowhere. You see, I get it, there's something about the way I look, isn't it? I look like a friendly, nice nerd, somebody who cares. I actually don't care at all. I don't raise my voice, I don't shout or scream, I don't get visibly angry, and I don't repeat myself all the time, and so oftentimes I'll say something that people would just ignore it, and I'm not going to repeat myself again for that, and you know what? It actually may turn out that whatever I said may have been the highest suggestion, most important recommendation that you really should have followed, and if you decide to ignore that, which most everybody does, you know, I'm not the most persuasive person, I'm not going to bother putting in the effort into trying to be persuasive for you, then you may suffer the consequences, oftentimes, which can be severe. And the fact is, you're the only one who cares the most about you. It looks like I care, I know it looks like I care, I don't. I'm just here for some laughs. You know, one time I was at the beach, it was contaminated, it was fenced off, a woman just decided to go in anyways, and I told her, you know it's fenced off for a reason, I think she ignored my warning, who knows, maybe she got some disease after that. I tried to insist, but you know, I'm just not persuasive. And quite frankly, I'm just tired of people ignoring me, I don't know why I even bother, and you'll say, you want to ignore me? Fine, then go suffer the consequences of that, you'll learn. And fundamentally, I believe, you know, I failed a lot in my own life as well, on my journey to success, and I think it is helpful for other people to also fail as well. Because I believe, failure doesn't define you, it is a chance for you to improve upon, and I can handle failure quite well. Hopefully other people can as well, if they're not able to recover, that's on them. You know, it's arguable that when you help another person, you are imposing your life choices on another person, and then they would just be living your life, and the beauty of each individual person is that they get to make their own life choices, and that's what defines them. So arguably, as long as you are making decisions that you want to make, that you decided yourself, then you're living a life true to yourself, and that is the best life, rather than trying to live the life that I would live. And so from that perspective, I don't even know if I have any right to impose my advice on anybody else, not too strongly at least. You know, there's this fundamental idea that you cannot help somebody who is not already helping themselves, because oftentimes, you're just going to have a self-sabotager with a helper, and they're working against each other. There's this fundamental conflict of interest. One person's digging their own grave, the other person's trying to stop them from digging. So I'm not going to be pulling more weight than you here. And oftentimes, helping people in such situations only leads to an unsustainable situation. And then the most important reason not to help people out is that, at least as far as advice goes, is that most advice is ignored anyways. Like, you can go through so much time and effort trying to give somebody really good advice, nobody ever listens to that anyways. And in those situations, I don't know, maybe what you really need to do is lead through inspiration, show not tell. Inspire people to be better rather than just giving them advice where they're not going to ignore it. And in the worst case, that advice can even trigger reverse psychology where they will do the exact opposite of what you're trying to tell them to do. Now, overall, I do need to know that I'm not against helping people. I think everybody needs a helping hand sometimes, but I think that we can just be more careful about the way we help people and in which situations we deploy our help, because many times, people will just learn to take advantage of that and it creates unsustainable situations. And in my opinion, even though I'm a helpful person, I'd rather have people view me as an unhelpful mean guy. And whenever I choose to deploy that help, that should not be taken for granted. So I hope you enjoyed that discussion, helping people.
I don't think it should be automatic. Don't just do it all the time and let people know that you can take it away anytime. When you deploy it, they'll be more thankful for it. Let me know your thoughts on helping people. Should you just help everybody all the time? Just be this nice, friendly, kind person that people learn to take advantage of? I'd say pull it back sometimes, but let me know your thoughts in the comments below, see you there. And if you liked the video, give it a like, and subscribe. See you in the next one. Bye.